# Gopher Tortoise Detector

This is an example of an object detection-based, species-specific animal detector 
for use with ```autocopy.py```.  To use this detector, you must have the TensorFlow Object Detection API installed.
Google "tensorflow object detection api" to find the latest instructions on how to 
install the API.

The class ```TortoiseDetector``` implements a neural net-based gopher tortoise detector that
combines the EfficientDet object detector and the MobileNet image classifier to 
create a hybrid architecture that gives decent performance using a small number of
training images.  The EfficientDet object detector is run with a low required confidence 
level (say, 20%) resulting in many tortoise candidates being detected.  The region 
associated with each candidate is extracted from the original image, resized to 
224 × 224 pixels, and fed into the MobileNet image classifier to determine if the 
region contains a tortoise.  Only those candidate regions determined to contain a 
tortoise with a degree of confidence greater than a user-specified threshold (say, 
90%) are kept.  For this scheme to work properly, MobileNet must be trained on 
sample candidate images generated by EfficientDet.  In the parlance of object detection, 
EfficientDet is acting as a “region proposal network” for MobileNet.

This architecture served me reasonably well in my gopher tortoise work, but 
I do not particularly recommend it for use in other projects.  Therefore, I am not
providing a Google Colab notebook for training the detector.
